ToDo.md, before:

# Stuff to add

## Chemical potential
- Note about cost of `vasp_ncl` chemical potential calculations for metals, use `ISMEAR = -5`, possibly `NKRED` etc. (make a function to generate `vasp_ncl` calculation files with `ISMEAR = -5`, with option to set different kpoints) - if `ISMEAR = 0` - converged kpoints still prohibitively large, use vasp_converge_files again to check for quicker convergence with ISMEAR = -5.
- Use `NKRED = 2` for `vasp_ncl` chempot calcs, if even kpoints and over 4. Often can't use `NKRED` with `vasp_std`, because we don't know beforehand the kpts in the IBZ (because symmetry on for `vasp_std` chempot calcs)(same goes for `EVENONLY = True`).
- Add `chempot_std_to_ncl.sh` bash script to auto-generate symmetrised `KPOINTS` for SOC `vasp_ncl` run from `vasp_std` IBZKPT, and copy `vasp_std/CONTCAR` to `vasp_ncl/POSCAR`, copy `CHGCAR`, `POTCAR` over etc. (Make note about symmetrised k-points required for accurate SOC bandstructures, VASP wizardry with Chris, but not an issue for ground state energies).
- Use `UserChemPotAnalyzer` to parse chemical potential calculations
- Note about SOC for chemical potential calculations (Lany says: to ‘a good approximation’, the SOC contributions to total energy can be separated into purely atomic contributions, Lany, Stevanovic and Zunger show in their [FERE paper](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.115104) that the SOC effects on total energy cancel out for chemical potential calculations) - But only for easy systems - better to do consistently
- Publication ready chemical potential diagram plotting tool

## Defect calculations set up

- Check against updated PyCDT to see if any big, useful changes since we copied code.
- `rattle` function and notes about finding stable ground state structures (what about the bond distortion method for finding polarons?)
- Note about `ISPIN = 1` for even no. of electrons defect species, **if you're sure there's no magnetic ordering!**
- `NKRED` pre-relaxing on defect structures (see jspark Slack discussion)
- Create defects in/near the centre of the supercell (rather than near the origin), for easier visualisation (get all the possible sites, get the one that has coordinates closest to (0.5, 0.5, 0.5))
- Option _not to set_ certain `INCAR` tags (like HFSCREEN and LORBIT, cause their default "None" doesn't really correspond to a certain value; could add a `remove_incar_tags` arg and then `pop` them out of the incar dict?)
- create a SMTG_defects_input_set for different functionals (PBE0, HSE0, PBE) and maybe just use `DictSet` base class rather than one of the pre-existing classes to make the vasp input files.
- Streamline vasp_input functions (prepare_vasp_defect_inputs and prepare_vasp_defect_dict should all be done in one, remove hard-coded tags from the functions)
- Print Wyckoff position of proposed interstitial sites (and optional output of Wyckoff sites which are neither atomic nor Voronoi sites)
- Better charge state predictor? At least print determined oxidation state ranges, and warning that you're gonna use these to predict defect charge states (so people can see if something off etc.); could use the csv Dan sent on defects slack (17 Mar 21 - this can also be done in pymatgen; see ShakeNBreak most_common_oxi function) and set an arbitrary cutoff for oxidation states that can occur in known materials. Alternative possibility is do +/-2 to fully-ionised+/-2, as this should cover >99% of amphoteric cases right? (See emails with Jimmy – can be easily done with 'padding' option in pymatgen-analysis-defects?)
- Multiprocessing ability for interstitial generation. Perhaps symmetry reduction methods, where you first reduce the initial structure via symmetry to the primitive cell, then do interstitial generation, then convert to interstitials in initial supercell structure.
- Ideally figure out automation of polaron finding
- Add function to post-process and remove closely-located interstitials for structures with large voids (from SMTG #software Slack (Yong-Seok): "If your structure has large space for interstitials and it predicts lots of atoms closely positioned to each other (& take longer time to predict), you can increase min_dist  (default is 0.5) in remove_collisions function in [python path]/python3.9/site-packages/pymatgen/analysis/defects/utils.py"), and add note to example notebooks about this.
- Functions for generating input files, parsing (with GKFO correction) and plotting the results (i.e. configuration coordinate diagrams) of optical calculations. Integrate with Joe's `config-coord-plots`? (also see `CarrierCapture` functionalities)
- Currently inputting multiple extrinsic `sub_species` will assume you are co-doping, and will output competing phases for this (e.g. K and In with BaSnO3 will output KInO2), default should not be to do this, but have an optional argument for co-doping treatment.

## Post-processing / analysis / plotting

- Change `get_stdrd_metadata` to a semi-hidden method and call in `SingleDefectParser.from_paths()` to avoid extra/redundant function calls by user.
- `aide` labelling of defect species in formation energy plots.
- Build in `emphasis` option to `formation_energy_plot`, label 0 as VBM and CBM on x-axis
- Note that if you edit the entries in a DefectPhaseDiagram after creating it, you need to `dpd.find_stable_charges()` to update the transition level map etc.
- `transition_levels_table()`
- Change formation energy plotting and tabulation to DefectPhaseDiagram methods rather than standalone functions.
- Fix `(ax=ax)` optional parameter behaviour in `formation_energy_plot` (where `f, ax = plt.subplots` run previously).
- Add warning for bandfilling correction based off energy range of the CBM/VBM occupation? (In addition to num_hole and num_electron)
- Functions for generating input files, parsing (with GKFO correction) and plotting the results (i.e. configuration coordinate diagrams) of optical calculations.
- Functionality to generate chemical potential limit plots from parsed chempot calculations (phase diagram objects), as in Adam Jackson's `plot-cplap-ternary` (3D) and Sungyhun's `cplapy` (4D). – See `Cs2SnTiI6` notebooks for template code for this.
- Figure out a neat way of plotting phase diagrams for quaternary and quinary systems.
- Option for degeneracy-weighted ('reduced') formation energy diagrams, similar to reduced energies in SOD. See Slack discussion and CdTe pyscfermi notebooks.
- Improved methods for estimating/determining the final site degeneracy/multiplicity from relaxed structures. See `pydefect` for tools for this. Also add consideration of odd/even number of electrons to account for spin degeneracy.
- Brouwer diagrams
- Function(s) for exporting defect energies and corrections as Pandas DataFrame / HDF5 / json / yaml / csv etc for readily-accessible, easy-to-use reproducibility
- Functions to output data and python objects to plug and play with `py-sc-fermi`, `AiiDA`, `CarrierCapture`.
- Parsing capability for (non-defect) polarons, so they can then be plotted alongside defects on formation energy diagrams.
- Update charge `kumagai_loader` and `freysoldt_loader` to use _relaxed_ defect site rather than _initial_ defect site for charge corrections (negligible error in most cases), and update `offsite_warning`.
- Add warning if, when parsing, only one charge state for a defect is parsed (i.e. the other charge states haven't completed), in case this isn't noticed by the user. Print a list of all parsed charge states as a check.
- Used `monty` JSON encoding rather than `pickle` (like `pymatgen`) as less senstitive to environment and human-readable.
- Improved/more robust site-matching, capable of dealing with distorted structures. Automatically adjust site-matching tolerances if defect not initially identified. Try build in stoichiometry consideration as a hint for what defect site it should be looking for? See ShakeNBreak tools for this.
- Automatically check the 'bulk' and 'defect' calculations used the same INCAR tags, and warn user if not.

## Housekeeping

- Update to be compatible with new `pymatgen` – will need to think about an appropriate naming scheme for inequivalent defect sites as this isn't currently in `pymatgen-analysis-defects` (include site symmetry and multiplicity in name, and if this is still a duplicate then append with "_a", "_b" etc?).
- Modularity - could have defect_creation (what is now vasp input+pycdt), defect_analysis, chempot and a separate plotting module?
- Create GGA practice workflow, for people to learn how to work with doped and defect calculations
- Add `dope_stuff` examples and documentation.
- Add tests
- Clean the example jupyter notebooks and docstrings
- Ready to be used in conjunction with `atomate`, `AiiDA`, `CarrierCapture`.
- PR to pymatgen: Update check_final_relaxed_structure_delocalized(self, defect_entry) in pymatgen/analysis/defects/defect_compatibility.py to allow defects which move more than 0.01 Angstrom from initial_defect_structure (allow up to 1 Angstrom?).
- PR to pymatgen: Update entry.parameters["kumagai_meta"] = (dict(self.metadata)) to entry.parameters["kumagai_meta"].update(dict(self.metadata)) in KumagaiCorrection.get_correction() in pymatgen/analysis/defects/corrections.py so pymatgen doesn't remove the other relevant kumagai_meta (kumagai_electrostatic etc.) when we run KumagaiCorrection.get_correction(defect_entry) (via finite_size_charge_correction.get_correction_kumagai(defect_entry...)).

Commit message:

Update ToDo.md (removing tasks that have now been completed and some additional notes)
Former-commit-id: b709bc8c429bfb72b4d80a3e1da617f6fb96a269 [formerly e359ddcdc8e669d5df9729fbd27c396690102b40]
Former-commit-id: 9547cfd4351728ea60ec57f2cb5ac5cf4a8ffc02

ToDo.md, after:

# Stuff to add

## Chemical potential
- Note about cost of `vasp_ncl` chemical potential calculations for metals, use `ISMEAR = -5`, possibly `NKRED` etc. (make a function to generate `vasp_ncl` calculation files with `ISMEAR = -5`, with option to set different kpoints) - if `ISMEAR = 0` - converged kpoints still prohibitively large, use vasp_converge_files again to check for quicker convergence with ISMEAR = -5.
- Use `NKRED = 2` for `vasp_ncl` chempot calcs, if even kpoints and over 4. Often can't use `NKRED` with `vasp_std`, because we don't know beforehand the kpts in the IBZ (because symmetry on for `vasp_std` chempot calcs)(same goes for `EVENONLY = True`).
- Add `chempot_std_to_ncl.sh` bash script to auto-generate symmetrised `KPOINTS` for SOC `vasp_ncl` run from `vasp_std` IBZKPT, and copy `vasp_std/CONTCAR` to `vasp_ncl/POSCAR`, copy `CHGCAR`, `POTCAR` over etc. (Make note about symmetrised k-points required for accurate SOC bandstructures, VASP wizardry with Chris, but not an issue for ground state energies).
- Use `UserChemPotAnalyzer` to parse chemical potential calculations
- Note about SOC for chemical potential calculations (Lany says: to ‘a good approximation’, the SOC contributions to total energy can be separated into purely atomic contributions, Lany, Stevanovic and Zunger show in their [FERE paper](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.85.115104) that the SOC effects on total energy cancel out for chemical potential calculations) - But only for easy systems - better to do consistently
- Publication ready chemical potential diagram plotting tool

## Defect calculations set up
- Note about `ISPIN = 1` for even no. of electrons defect species, **if you're sure there's no magnetic ordering!**
- `NKRED` pre-relaxing on defect structures (see jspark Slack discussion)
- Option _not to set_ certain `INCAR` tags (like HFSCREEN and LORBIT, cause their default "None" doesn't really correspond to a certain value; could add a `remove_incar_tags` arg and then `pop` them out of the incar dict?)
- create a SMTG_defects_input_set for different functionals (PBE0, HSE0, PBE) and maybe just use `DictSet` base class rather than one of the pre-existing classes to make the vasp input files.
- Streamline vasp_input functions (prepare_vasp_defect_inputs and prepare_vasp_defect_dict should all be done in one, remove hard-coded tags from the functions)
- Print Wyckoff position of proposed interstitial sites (and optional output of Wyckoff sites which are neither atomic nor Voronoi sites)
- Better charge state predictor? At least print determined oxidation state ranges, and warning that you're gonna use these to predict defect charge states (so people can see if something off etc.); could use the csv Dan sent on defects slack (17 Mar 21 - this can also be done in pymatgen; see ShakeNBreak most_common_oxi function) and set an arbitrary cutoff for oxidation states that can occur in known materials. Alternative possibility is do +/-2 to fully-ionised+/-2, as this should cover >99% of amphoteric cases right? (See emails with Jimmy – can be easily done with 'padding' option in pymatgen-analysis-defects?)
- Multiprocessing ability for interstitial generation. Perhaps symmetry reduction methods, where you first reduce the initial structure via symmetry to the primitive cell, then do interstitial generation, then convert to interstitials in initial supercell structure.
- Ideally figure out automation of polaron finding
- Add function to post-process and remove closely-located interstitials for structures with large voids (from SMTG #software Slack (Yong-Seok): "If your structure has large space for interstitials and it predicts lots of atoms closely positioned to each other (& take longer time to predict), you can increase min_dist  (default is 0.5) in remove_collisions function in [python path]/python3.9/site-packages/pymatgen/analysis/defects/utils.py"), and add note to example notebooks about this.
- Functions for generating input files, parsing (with GKFO correction) and plotting the results (i.e. configuration coordinate diagrams) of optical calculations. Integrate with Joe's `config-coord-plots`? (also see `CarrierCapture` functionalities)
- Currently inputting multiple extrinsic `sub_species` will assume you are co-doping, and will output competing phases for this (e.g. K and In with BaSnO3 will output KInO2), default should not be to do this, but have an optional argument for co-doping treatment.

## Post-processing / analysis / plotting

- Change `get_stdrd_metadata` to a semi-hidden method and call in `SingleDefectParser.from_paths()` to avoid extra/redundant function calls by user.
- `aide` labelling of defect species in formation energy plots.
- Note that if you edit the entries in a DefectPhaseDiagram after creating it, you need to `dpd.find_stable_charges()` to update the transition level map etc.
- `transition_levels_table()`
- Change formation energy plotting and tabulation to DefectPhaseDiagram methods rather than standalone functions.
- Fix `(ax=ax)` optional parameter behaviour in `formation_energy_plot` (where `f, ax = plt.subplots` run previously).
- Add warning for bandfilling correction based off energy range of the CBM/VBM occupation? (In addition to num_hole and num_electron)
- Functions for generating input files, parsing (with GKFO correction) and plotting the results (i.e. configuration coordinate diagrams) of optical calculations.
- Functionality to generate chemical potential limit plots from parsed chempot calculations (phase diagram objects), as in Adam Jackson's `plot-cplap-ternary` (3D) and Sungyhun's `cplapy` (4D). – See `Cs2SnTiI6` notebooks for template code for this.
- Figure out a neat way of plotting phase diagrams for quaternary and quinary systems.
- Option for degeneracy-weighted ('reduced') formation energy diagrams, similar to reduced energies in SOD. See Slack discussion and CdTe pyscfermi notebooks.
- Improved methods for estimating/determining the final site degeneracy/multiplicity from relaxed structures. See `pydefect` for tools for this. Also add consideration of odd/even number of electrons to account for spin degeneracy.
- Brouwer diagrams
- Function(s) for exporting defect energies and corrections as Pandas DataFrame / HDF5 / json / yaml / csv etc for readily-accessible, easy-to-use reproducibility
- Functions to output data and python objects to plug and play with `py-sc-fermi`, `AiiDA`, `CarrierCapture`.
- Parsing capability for (non-defect) polarons, so they can then be plotted alongside defects on formation energy diagrams.
- Add warning if, when parsing, only one charge state for a defect is parsed (i.e. the other charge states haven't completed), in case this isn't noticed by the user. Print a list of all parsed charge states as a check.
- Used `monty` JSON encoding rather than `pickle` (like `pymatgen`) as less senstitive to environment and human-readable.
- Automatically check the 'bulk' and 'defect' calculations used the same INCAR tags, and warn user if not.

## Housekeeping

- Update to be compatible with new `pymatgen` – will need to think about an appropriate naming scheme for inequivalent defect sites as this isn't currently in `pymatgen-analysis-defects` (include site symmetry and multiplicity in name, and if this is still a duplicate then append with "_a", "_b" etc?)(i.e. use this rather than old PyCDT number counting, as this can be easily confused with charge states)
- Modularity - could have defect_creation (what is now vasp input+pycdt), defect_analysis, chempot and a separate plotting module?
- Create GGA practice workflow, for people to learn how to work with doped and defect calculations
- Add `dope_stuff` examples and documentation.
- Add tests
- Clean the example jupyter notebooks and docstrings
- Ready to be used in conjunction with `atomate`, `AiiDA`, `CarrierCapture`.
- PR to pymatgen: Update entry.parameters["kumagai_meta"] = (dict(self.metadata)) to entry.parameters["kumagai_meta"].update(dict(self.metadata)) in KumagaiCorrection.get_correction() in pymatgen/analysis/defects/corrections.py so pymatgen doesn't remove the other relevant kumagai_meta (kumagai_electrostatic etc.) when we run KumagaiCorrection.get_correction(defect_entry) (via finite_size_charge_correction.get_correction_kumagai(defect_entry...)).
