docs/Tips.rst, before:

Tips & Tricks
============================

Tricky Relaxations
-------------------

If some of your defect supercell relaxations are not converging after multiple continuation calculations
(i.e. ``cp``-ing ``CONTCAR`` to ``POSCAR`` and resubmitting the job), this is likely due to an error in
the underlying calculation, extreme forces and/or small residual forces which the structure optimisation
algorithm is struggling to relax.

- A common culprit is the :code:`EDWAV` error in the output file, which can typically be avoided by
  reducing :code:`NCORE` and/or :code:`KPAR`.

    - If some relaxations are still not converging after multiple continuations, you should check the
      calculation output files to see if this requires fixing. Often this may require changing a
      specific :code:`INCAR` setting, and using the updated setting(s) for any other relaxations which
      are also struggling to converge.

- If the calculation outputs show that the relaxation is proceeding fine, without any errors, just not
  converging to completion, then it suggests that the structure relaxation is bouncing around a narrow
  region of the potential energy surface, within which the gradient-based geometry optimiser is
  struggling to converge.

    - Often (but not always) this indicates that the structure may be stuck around a `saddle point` or
      shallow local minimum on the potential energy surface (PES), and so it's important to make sure
      you've performed structure-searching (PES scanning) with
      `ShakeNBreak <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io>`_ (``SnB``) to avoid this. You may want to try
      'rattling' the structure to break symmetry in case this is an issue, as detailed in
      `this part <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Tips.html#bulk-phase-transformations>`_
      of the ``SnB`` docs.

    - **Alternatively, convergence of the forces can be aided by:**
    - Switching the ionic relaxation algorithm back and forth (i.e. change :code:`IBRION` to :code:`1` or
      :code:`3` and back).
    - Reducing the ionic step width (e.g. change :code:`POTIM` to :code:`0.02` in the :code:`INCAR`)
    - Switching the electronic minimisation algorithm (e.g. change :code:`ALGO` to :code:`All`), if
      electronic concergence seems to be causing issues.
    - Tightening/reducing the electronic convergence criterion (e.g. change :code:`EDIFF` to :code:`1e-7`)

``ShakeNBreak``
-------------------

For issues relating to the ``ShakeNBreak`` part of the defect calculation workflow, please refer to the
`ShakeNBreak documentation <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io>`_.

Troubleshooting
-------------------
.. _troubleshooting:

- A previous known issue with ``numpy``/``pymatgen`` is that it could give an error similar to this:

  .. code:: python

      ValueError: numpy.ndarray size changed, may indicate binary incompatibility. Expected 88 from C header, got 80 from PyObject

  This should be avoided with current versions of ``doped``, due to the package installation
  requirements (handled automatically by ``pip``), but depending on your ``python`` environment and
  previously-installed packages, it could possibly still arise. It occurs due to a recent change in the
  ``numpy`` C API in version ``1.20.0``, see
  `here <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66060487/valueerror-numpy-ndarray-size-changed-may-indicate-binary-incompatibility-exp>`_
  for details.
  It should be fixed by reinstalling ``numpy`` and ``pymatgen`` (so that they play nice together), so
  that it is rebuilt with the new ``numpy`` C API:

  .. code:: bash

      pip install --force --no-cache-dir numpy==1.23
      pip uninstall pymatgen
      pip install pymatgen



Have any tips for users from using ``doped``? Please share it with the developers and we'll add them here!

Commit message:

Add note about recommended workflow for interstitial defects
Former-commit-id: 2922f46eb42980f00eb39b737892ad03038dc161 [formerly d1efb22d0bf3f847177f1ba69f44781d71dca5d7]
Former-commit-id: 04781b87064d8bb94b34d40a5264b9b662e386f9

docs/Tips.rst, after:

Tips & Tricks
============================

Interstitials
-------------------
As described in the `YouTube defect calculation tutorial <https://youtu.be/FWz7nm9qoNg>`_, our
recommended workflow for calculating interstitial defects is to first generate the set of
possible interstitial sites for your structure using ``DefectsGenerator`` (which uses Voronoi tessellation
to do this), and then perform Gamma-point-only relaxations (using ``vasp_gam``) for the neutral state of
each generated interstitial candidate. The ``vasp_gam`` relaxation files can be generated following the
steps shown in the
`defect generation tutorial <https://doped.readthedocs.io/en/latest/dope_workflow_example.html>`_ and
setting ``vasp_gam = True`` in ``DefectsSet.write_files()``.

We can then compare the energies of these trial neutral relaxations, and remove any candidates that
either:

- Are very high energy (>1 eV above the lowest energy site), and so are unlikely to form.

- Relax to the same final structure/energy as other interstitial sites (despite different initial
  positions), and so are unnecessary to calculate. This can happen due to interstitial migration within
  the relaxation calculation, from an unfavourable higher energy site, to a lower energy one. Typically
  if the energy from the test neutral `vasp_gam` relaxations are within a couple meV of eachother, this
  is the case.

Tricky Relaxations
-------------------

If some of your defect supercell relaxations are not converging after multiple continuation calculations
(i.e. ``cp``-ing ``CONTCAR`` to ``POSCAR`` and resubmitting the job), this is likely due to an error in
the underlying calculation, extreme forces and/or small residual forces which the structure optimisation
algorithm is struggling to relax.

- A common culprit is the :code:`EDWAV` error in the output file, which can typically be avoided by
  reducing :code:`NCORE` and/or :code:`KPAR`.

    - If some relaxations are still not converging after multiple continuations, you should check the
      calculation output files to see if this requires fixing. Often this may require changing a
      specific :code:`INCAR` setting, and using the updated setting(s) for any other relaxations which
      are also struggling to converge.

- If the calculation outputs show that the relaxation is proceeding fine, without any errors, just not
  converging to completion, then it suggests that the structure relaxation is bouncing around a narrow
  region of the potential energy surface, within which the gradient-based geometry optimiser is
  struggling to converge.

    - Often (but not always) this indicates that the structure may be stuck around a `saddle point` or
      shallow local minimum on the potential energy surface (PES), and so it's important to make sure
      you've performed structure-searching (PES scanning) with
      `ShakeNBreak <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io>`_ (``SnB``) to avoid this. You may want to try
      'rattling' the structure to break symmetry in case this is an issue, as detailed in
      `this part <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Tips.html#bulk-phase-transformations>`_
      of the ``SnB`` docs.

    - **Alternatively, convergence of the forces can be aided by:**
    - Switching the ionic relaxation algorithm back and forth (i.e. change :code:`IBRION` to :code:`1` or
      :code:`3` and back).
    - Reducing the ionic step width (e.g. change :code:`POTIM` to :code:`0.02` in the :code:`INCAR`)
    - Switching the electronic minimisation algorithm (e.g. change :code:`ALGO` to :code:`All`), if
      electronic concergence seems to be causing issues.
    - Tightening/reducing the electronic convergence criterion (e.g. change :code:`EDIFF` to :code:`1e-7`)

``ShakeNBreak``
-------------------

For issues relating to the ``ShakeNBreak`` part of the defect calculation workflow, please refer to the
`ShakeNBreak documentation <https://shakenbreak.readthedocs.io>`_.

Troubleshooting
-------------------
.. _troubleshooting:

- A previous known issue with ``numpy``/``pymatgen`` is that it could give an error similar to this:

  .. code:: python

      ValueError: numpy.ndarray size changed, may indicate binary incompatibility. Expected 88 from C header, got 80 from PyObject

  This should be avoided with current versions of ``doped``, due to the package installation
  requirements (handled automatically by ``pip``), but depending on your ``python`` environment and
  previously-installed packages, it could possibly still arise. It occurs due to a recent change in the
  ``numpy`` C API in version ``1.20.0``, see
  `here <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66060487/valueerror-numpy-ndarray-size-changed-may-indicate-binary-incompatibility-exp>`_
  for details.
  It should be fixed by reinstalling ``numpy`` and ``pymatgen`` (so that they play nice together), so
  that it is rebuilt with the new ``numpy`` C API:

  .. code:: bash

      pip install --force --no-cache-dir numpy==1.23
      pip uninstall pymatgen
      pip install pymatgen



Have any tips for users from using ``doped``? Please share it with the developers and we'll add them here!
